hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski this episode of the smart
economy podcast is the final episode of
the series we're doing on gaming and
blockchain in the fourth installment of
the gaming series I chat with Joshua
McDougall the president of slow Ninja
slow ninja is a blockchain based gaming
studio that has released games on
multiple blockchain networks dating back
to 2014. the team is currently building
structs a strategic game of interstellar
Enterprise and Empire the game will
build upon a popular gaming model called
4X but we'll be adding a Fifth Element
exchange to incorporate ownership of
in-game assets in this conversation Josh
and I talk about his decade-long
Discovery process of building games on
Cutting Edge act and his journey
developing across blockchains we also
talk about the philosophy of building
fun games and how they can unknowingly
onboard new users to web3 and we talk
about building a gaming protocol that
integrates the composability of other
dapps in the cosmos ecosystem among many
other topics just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens that nothing
should be taken as Financial advice
and that the host or guests May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said I really enjoyed chatting
with Josh and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey guys what's going on Welcome to the
smart economy podcast today we are
joined by Joshua McDougall the president
of slow ninja how are you doing today
Josh hey Dylan thanks for having me I'm
doing great really psyched to have you
on you have a pretty cool background and
you're working on a really cool project
and we're doing a gaming Series right
now I guess the kind of jump off when
was the first time you heard about
Bitcoin cryptocurrency anything like
that and then when was like the first
time you started building or
participating in the space it would have
been back in about 2011 Maybe started
hearing about Bitcoin it was actually a
friend of mine wouldn't shut up about it
so him and I spent quite a few hours on
the on the balcony trying to break it
actually because we thought it was a
stupid idea you know if I can copy an
MP3 surely I can copy a Bitcoin then as
we tried to break it it came a little
more obvious that's not the worst idea
we'd ever heard it's actually one of the
most fascinating so we kind of delved
into it pretty hard at that time there
was kind of a constant theme of what new
people in the space did which is
basically like hate it really like it
tried to mine it and then it like
flutters off into a couple different
Pathways so we kind of did that same
process and at least until mining got a
little bit out of our hands but yeah
from there founded a company called C4 a
non-profit that handled education and
standards in the space which I believe
some of our people happen to have been
on your your podcasts as well and around
that same time I started toying with uh
I always had a love for building games
out of things that shouldn't have games
in it my first love being a one built
inside a database where you actually had
to issue SQL which is the language of
databases to play the game select star
from my ship since they're through my
ships et cetera et cetera so then there
was this this cool new technology that I
wanted to screw around with more and
it's my way of kind of learning the tech
a lot better so tried to build a game uh
using Bitcoin and similar blockchains
yeah you've built on ethereum Litecoin
Bitcoin now you're building on Cosmos so
like what were the different types of
games you made for the different
networks and how has like uh the
iteration of smart contract platforms
and just their General improvement over
time how has that led you down the path
to what you're building today yeah
definitely tried a lot of tech along the
way uh you can imagine all the different
things being released over the years
building on bitcoin and similar utxo
blockchains to begin with that game was
something called coindroids and the
premise of that was it's some accounting
robots some kind of AI enabled
accounting robots that were supposed to
be like the CEO of your company which
now is the thing that's actually kind of
or the CFO I should say kind of
exploring that more in large companies
which is fascinating but these robots
become sentient as robots in cyberpunk
often do but they took the idea that
money is power a little bit too
literally and they started shooting
money at each other so the premise of
these games and they were very simple
kind of concept in that it was a
centralized game I shot at you you had a
you know you had an attack address I
tried to shoot at your Droid if I could
kill you I won your Bounty if not the
amount of money I spent which was a
literal transaction went into your
address kind of making you a more
interesting Target for someone else to
try and attack you
um so it was all using basically default
wallets like blockchain.info wallet or
copay or whatever classic wallets were
available at the time low fall it just
scanning a QR code and sending funds and
and that was the kind of idea is use it
to teach people about this technology
let them let them build transactions let
them get some of their first tokens and
try it out which was fun but then there
was two problems with it one usability
was awful because if someone came to the
site and didn't have any of that it was
like okay we'll go away
two they put a lot of trust from our
perspective into all these networks to
constantly function and into these
wallets to function and especially with
you know Litecoin there was a bunch of
issues and a couple other currencies
that we tried there was a bunch of
issues along the way but also you know
fees went through the roof especially on
bitcoin making this game about
microtransactions completely useless and
that Community basically said well you
shouldn't be using Bitcoin for that
anyways that's stupid cool no problem
we'll move on and then people also
didn't really want to spend their
Bitcoin or their Litecoin their Hubble
communities right like they're they have
no interest in in gambling and corn
droids wasn't gambling but it was you
know practically gambling you were
putting your assets at risk so they
weren't interested in it which was fine
it was still it worked great at
conferences as a teaching tool but it
wasn't something that really scaled well
from a web perspective kind of moving
along the the eras you know ethereum
came out and smart contracts are super
cool but we were a little bit it already
with getting screwed by putting our
trust into other clients and and
transaction fees and things like that
and you know for that one created just
like a a Tamagotchi type game
um where you just had this being on
ethereum and you wanted to keep it alive
pretty simple smart contract nothing
nothing crazy again used it to write a
tutorial on how to get into smart
contract writing but again for people to
play it from a studio perspective
there's certainly no no funds coming
into the game most of the funds coming
in would just be going to minors which
isn't necessarily a bad thing but it
doesn't really create a self-sustaining
ecosystem when all value going into it
are immediately being dispersed to the
things not even in the game so ethereum
although it's something we always wanted
to play with and honestly like the
ecosystem of ethereum is amazing when I
commented earlier that Bitcoin and
Litecoin uh you know the kind of hoddled
communities ethereum is the exact
opposite of that spec term ethereum
people will throw you thought anything
that they think is even remotely neat
and cool so like we always wanted to
build on that ecosystem because the
people would get it people would want to
try it and play it but we just were
always worried about you know that kind
of value
disbursement across the ecosystem versus
actually into the app that we're
building from there of course we love
Bitcoin so we thought okay we'll try the
lightning Network so we tried to take
that corn droids methodology where
you're just shooting money at each other
and and trying to apply that to the
lightning Network because that should
have been really fast and interesting
but the way the lightning Network worked
at the time and it may have changed now
but I don't even think it has you can't
send a payment without an invoice so I
can't I can't send you money until you
say hey Josh send me money which in a
game stance is like hey I'm going to
shoot you can you send me like a bullet
invoice you're like okay here's your
bullet invoice and great here like
Neville City these oh great I've
been shot because you fulfill the voice
like it just like that it didn't mesh
with me I didn't like it and obviously
you know you know when one of our main
problems was onboarding onboarding into
the lightning network is also kind of
atrocious sure like maybe it's gotten
better now but again we're talking like
2016 2017 2018 like it's just not not
good probably spent two months trying
and then just gave up and and moved on
my way thought EOS was going to be
awesome I was really excited about doing
that and I I we didn't even successfully
build anything so that was just
atrocious to build on it I hated it I'm
sorry EOS people but it's just the fact
of the matter did not like it at all you
know to kind of wrap up this adventure
although there were certainly many other
things that we we tried along the way it
was finally about two years ago now I
had some new ideas for game mechanics I
wasn't quite sure what they would become
but you know I kind of liked these Core
Concepts whether or not the game around
it we'll figure it out but let's try out
these Core Concepts so I was trying to
actually just write them in a
centralized way just like here's a
website or here's our app not on a Blog
chain whatsoever let's just try these
out and I was kind of fighting with it a
little bit and thinking to myself well
you know if I'm gonna if I'm gonna be
fighting with this and trying to like
force these Concepts into something
where it's not really even what they're
supposed to be on eventually like it's
kind of actually weird to write a
centralized system that's trying to be a
blockchain that yet kind of virtualizing
it so we thought you know what I'll just
try this Cosmos thing I had a couple
friends who were kind of into it so
figured okay let's give it a try and I
have a like a working demo of my
Concepts within like three weeks I was
like wait like this is incredible I just
I built my own blockchain and it's doing
the thing I want in like next to no time
it was like the one of the easiest
things I'm not to say there are learning
curves to it and and gotchas here and
there but it really blew me away of all
the heavy lifting that it did with
things like IBC just just around the
corner too so it's like okay this
actually answers that this gives us the
control we want finally where you know
we're we're not beholden to all these
other people who are making different
clients and and you know kind of
defining what our user experience ends
up being and what our onboarding ends up
being we get to Define it now because we
get to control the chain so immediately
and by immediately I mean within a
couple months I quit my career 15 years
I got a couple full-time people to join
me up and we've been building the game
that we're building now uh ever since
yeah and that career you're doing
e-discovery it looked like from just
high level Concepts it was dealing with
like Risk and risk management so it was
just a little curious as to how your
former day job kind of impacted your
ability to do all these side projects
because you must be having no sleep
having no time to party or have fun if
you're working on all these side
projects all the time and have this
pretty demanding day job well side
projects are how at least one way I
enjoy it I have fun but uh certainly a
little party here and there too the
thing about the day job was so is
e-discovery which I'll Define it as
helping people Sue each other whenever
computers are involved so it's a lot
it's a extremely technical role now I'm
not a lawyer by any means I just help
support lawyers I helped be their their
understanding of Technology helping them
understand the concepts and helping them
translate what they're looking for into
these digital devices and stuff like
that so it was always very important
that I know technology well I'm
constantly researching new technology
and understanding it was only a matter
of time until we started to see cases
come in that involved cryptocurrency
assets and other digital assets so
helping that industry as well to say
okay hey you know you're going to have
to worry about this you're going to have
to deal with these soon and these are
how you're going to have to deal with
them safely like At first lawyers were
like oh okay great the other side should
give us the keys and we'll hold the keys
without even remotely understanding what
they were asking for how much risk they
were putting themselves at or what a
disaster that could potentially be feet
down the road so helping that industry
was always a lot of fun and there's
really two great ways of learning Tech
and that's one building something or two
teaching other people about it so I try
and do all the both of those pretty
regularly yeah and so before we kind of
jump and destruct the work you're doing
at C4 is really cool so why do you think
education is so important in the
blockchain space and like what
components are critical for like the
next 10x users that we acquire yeah I
mean so much of this is just really
intimidating to people and a lot of that
is our own fault so far and that's fine
like mostly it was like a bunch of nerds
and I'd say that with gratitude to the
industry build some things that were not
necessarily like geared towards humans
myself included along the way and we had
to kind of take a step back and realize
that you know what we're building isn't
necessarily overly approachable to most
and I think that actually that cut a lot
of people's backs up because they're
just they're terrified and so they're
they're scared of it when they look at
it and then the news just tells them
like hack hack hack scam stamp scam and
they have no way of bridging that Gap
they look over and they're like oh yeah
I'm gonna like 100 I could get scammed
on that or or mess that up even even if
it's not malicious they're just gonna
screw it up they hear about the guy
still after like nine years digging in
landfills for their laptop and they're
like well I don't want to dig into the
landfill for my laptop like maybe this
stuff just isn't for me so unless we're
able to move forward and properly
educate people they're always going to
have fear and they're never going to be
comfortable using this technology and if
people aren't comfortable doing it then
I mean businesses have no interest in
getting into it because then they just
look bad as well like it's like oh okay
you're not building that product for me
that's for someone else and we take that
very seriously now as we're building
this game as well like if you go to our
game and you know you see like oh you're
getting nft and this is your like long
string of address and like all this sort
of nonsense that just means nothing to
people and takes them out of it it takes
them out of the headspace then you know
we haven't succeeded at all and a lot of
the financial applications are also just
as crazy right now like you go and
they're like oh we're launching and it's
a website about some new thing being
launched and you know I get confused
I've been in this industry for 11 years
and I can look at some of these some of
these announcements or some of these
landing pages and splash pages and just
be like well I don't know what's going
on here if I don't know who to turn to
and ask then you know that's kind of
just dead in the water as far as my mind
goes we want to make sure that people
not have someone they can trust turn to
and say okay can you explain this to me
from the start please because people are
curious and they do want to know but we
have not been kind to them and let them
know how so education is critical
otherwise these people by these people I
mean most of the world are just going to
feel excluded from what we're doing
which is the opposite of the point of
this yeah so you've been building games
for a long time and you've been playing
with different blockchain networks and
now you finally leave your career 15
years so does this kind of like
philosophy of education and onboarding
new users does this kind of align with
why you gathered a group of people
together to build a game full time yeah
I mean it's certainly education has
always been a big part of the games
we've built whether or not the players
realize it and people like to learn
through playing from childhood this is
how humans kind of relate to the world
so if we can give people a safe place to
try something then hopefully that helps
them build that confidence or at least
shows them ways in which they can
improve and build that confidence over
time when we started coin droids we did
it for a conference called Defcon
security conference and again it was
2014 was the first year that we brought
it to Defcon and historically at Defcon
most people there then this kind of
still the case you know Bitcoin was at
best the butt of the jokes but more
likely not even known like the name
wasn't even something that that people
recognized yet and you know you bring
the cryptocurrency thing and you help
people kind of set up their first wallet
get some of their first tokens we were
using something called def coin which is
just a intentionally worthless token for
this sake of letting people try it
purely for educational purposes so we're
getting you know their wallet set up
getting them some tokens and people who
had never touched the technology before
and were adversarial to the concept of
it by the end of the first day we have
them doing transactions we have them
having fun we have them at least
understanding that oh okay I I see how
it works kind of now and in some cases
we actually had them doing like
forensics on the chain to solve
different puzzles and stuff like that
and really digging down deep into it so
again giving people something that's has
no real risks to it and it's just a
puzzle for them to try can really open
their eyes up to breaking down those
walls that they have in their mind going
like I don't like this technology for
XYZ and then suddenly they use it and
they're like oh okay well I at least I
understand it yeah and that goes a long
way we had a demo booth that consensus
um at the Neo Booth where you would scan
a QR code and then you could scan this
uh chest and everything would be
operating on blockchain network and then
the chess would flash these lights and
and the top would open up there was a
mechanical lever and people would win a
pre-loaded nft or cryptocurrency and we
just had hundreds of people coming up to
the booth just to test it out because
they just wanted to use blockchain in
any way so it's really cool that this is
kind of an experience that's been
building and people have been doing
since 2014 you guys you and and your
project so what is structs then how did
this idea come to be
and I think something that I also want
to hear you talk about is the fifth X
there's four X Games and you guys are
adding a fifth X which is an exchange so
maybe just like talk about structs what
it is and like how you guys are
implementing this kind of fifth
iteration of it so so strucks at its
core we're building a game and we want
it to be fun like that's our main focus
is making a fun game and we're not
trying to cram nfts inside something
we're not trying to you know launch an
Ico and then down the road maybe release
something we're not trying to build
something in which people will
necessarily base their life on a p21
kind of income our main goal is creating
a fun game easier said than done but
that's our goal it just so happens to be
that we think we can use this technology
to make a really cool game we think
there's parts of this technology parts
of this ecosystem that allow us to make
something that hasn't necessarily been
made before and and that's kind of the
the preface of what we're doing and
first the when we created coin droids
and all these other games a lot of it
was how can we twist this technology to
do this thing it shouldn't do and now
we're finally at the stage where it's
like oh now this technology allows us to
do XYZ so that's kind of my preface too
we want to build a gate and that is
structs and structs isn't about being a
blockchain game of course it's a
blockchain game that's you know it's why
I'm here today it's why I'm talking you
know when I talk to people in the
blockchain space obviously those are
talking points we're doing but as a
player when they come to the game that's
not what the focus is we want to just
give people a good experience so you
mentioned the four X's what is structs
structs is a 5x game so the four X's are
expand explore extract and exterminate
it's a pretty classic genre of game one
of the most common in video game formats
is sieved in board game formats there's
games like Eclipse as well as Twilight
Imperium these are considered Forex
games where you know I start and I want
to go explore out I run into people I
want to get more resources but I want to
kind of like deal with my enemies at the
same time so we do have that fifth X so
we're a 5x game and we add exchange
because this is where you know one of
these blockchain elements can come into
play is there's the community aspect of
it and then there's the economy aspect
of it too so not only do we have our own
you know managing your assets internally
but thanks to the cosmos IBC Network we
can send those assets out too and you
know I hopefully Envision a future where
you know we can migrate our nfts or
better set our in-game Assets in and out
of the chain to go to different
marketplaces over on secret Network or
head up stargaze or wherever there you
know is a Marketplace to deal with
assets or bring those assets back into
the game and of course the same same
thing for the the kind of more
fundamental resources of the game your
Alpha which is your fuel or your energy
which is your watt token getting those
you know out into other markets as well
be it osmosis or other exchanges too so
that exchange element is the big thing
that obviously the having a blockchain
helps provide and it's also not the only
part of it too yeah do you guys Envision
having like an in-game Marketplace what
does outreach to developers on like
secret or at stars what does that look
like for you guys right now are you just
focusing in-house are you starting to
communicate externally so I mean I feel
like the beautiful thing about the
cosmos Network and IPC is that we
shouldn't have to waste a lot of
resources to rebuild a lot of these
things that have rebuilt again and again
and again as far as the core resources
go or the tokens of the platform getting
those on osmosis will be fairly simple
IBC has kind of nailed that process now
whether or not we actually send you over
to the osmosis platform from our
experience I would rather not see that
happen you know not to say it won't
happen of course osmosis can pull assets
and that's fine but I don't want to take
people out of the game either now with
you have like interchange accounts
coming up and being able to send more
complicated IBC transactions so from our
chain we can actually trigger everything
needed to you know stake into a pool on
those buses or hopefully down the road
we can use say we can list something on
the Stars Marketplace or on say the
stash Marketplace on on secret Network
all from our chain all without the
people leaving our experience now
certainly if people are on those
marketplaces from that end great more
power to them but at least it doesn't
require us to remove people from from
our experience it doesn't require a
secret token or a Stars token because
we've got all that kind of happening
under the hood within our chain and and
with technology like interchain accounts
so some My Hope Is we don't have to
write a Marketplace we don't have to
write a amm we just get to use all these
things that exist across the start the
cosmos ecosystem and really it's just
about creating the user experience
within ours that makes that kind of
fluid yeah that's the beauty of Lego
blocks and composability once somebody
else has done the work and it's been
audited then you guys can plug and play
exactly exactly so is your blockchain
and testnet right now like are wat
tokens available I did a walkthrough
with you guys when you released your POC
and so I got to test it around a little
bit and I went back recently to see
what's going on and it feels very
similar to when we did the walk through
so like what's going on under the hood
right now where are you guys at in terms
of like what you've done for the
blockchain like when I create a new
schematic is that an nft that has been
minted
can I access it through my Kepler wallet
I'm sorry for the brain dump of
questions no no worries these are all
great so yeah you tried the proof of
concept or demo that was released uh we
released that late last year we spent
some time tweaking that we had brought
on our ux and UI people to help kind of
make that a better experience and we got
amazing feedback from from people like
yourself and and some of the other
players who helped us also pinpoint
problems with gameplay and again when we
created that demo it was like okay
here's some components here's some
pieces here's some mechanics what do you
think of those so far and we got amazing
feedback but it wasn't it wasn't the
full game right like it and you can
probably kind of speak to that too if
you were to be asked it was neat but
then you didn't really know like okay
well what's next it's a great question
because there was no what's next
that wasn't implemented yet so what we
did was we were you know we were
tweaking that demo tweaking that demo
building upon it in some ways I never
saw the the light of day and then we
took all that feedback we were getting
we said okay you know what hold up we're
kind of done with that demo now it still
exists you can still play it yeah it's
still fun and we still certainly airdrop
details will be based on that as well
once once we do hit the next test net
and mainnet and things like that but we
actually just stopped development on it
and development on anything and we went
back to that kind of first first
statement I made when I was talking
about trucks we want to build a fun game
so we spent about six months not writing
any code aside from trying out little
little game mechanics and kind of
modeling things and just doing a lot of
play testing and we use a lot of like
board game simulator or whatever it's
called and even just like pieces of
paper and just trying different gameplay
trying to make battle mechanics that
were more interesting trying to hatch
out I think one of my favorite questions
that someone asked was what am I
defending where is your placement in the
game what is what are you protecting
what are you building
Etc so that was a great question though
we we worked really hard to answer up
you know what is your area what is your
region in the game that you're
protecting um so that'll be a big
difference from anyone who played the
the demo of where we're going next is
you know the concept of your home planet
and what you're doing on that planet and
how that changes what you can build when
you can build and the different
resources you have access to yeah I was
wondering if you guys had built like a
map out because creating these these
units that can have defense or or
offensive attributes as well as
engineering you know where am I going to
use these to battle so has that also
been something that you guys have been
conceptualizing like what does this map
look like is it going to be like a super
huge multi-million cell map is it going
to be something that's small that kind
of iterates where where did you guys end
up with that yeah so basically everyone
has their home planet and only one of
them and you can build there and you can
also send ships to your Fleet and you
can send your Fleet to other planets so
the map is confined really to a planet
at all times or I can go and explore I
can get to someone else's Planet once
you're on that map it kind of looks like
a chessboard really like there you start
to each side of each other placement on
that map still doesn't super matter but
it matters a little bit and what we
really tried to do was simplify battles
a little bit while making them make a
lot more sense if you remember the demo
you know you could have had a hundred HP
health or 10 000 HP Health depending on
what you're doing where now it's you
know you've got one two or three so we
drastically simplified some stat details
so it was a lot easier at a glance to
understand what someone was but other
elements have have become a little bit
more in depth as well to add certainly
more replayability and interest to it so
we are working on just an off offline
emulator of the battle engine so we're
looking to get that out in the next
couple months for people to play around
with and just see how they enjoy the
battles that's obviously important for
us to help get some more input on on how
those battles are looking make sure you
know none of the units are just Ultra
god mode or there's some exceptions we
haven't figured out in that time we're
also building a test net for the the
next iteration of the game that test net
won't have gameplay elements on it yet
because obviously we want to see how
this simulator goes and how people like
that before we start worrying about
getting it deep into the chain but this
test net will focus on things like
factions as well as just giving the
validators community kind of something
to get comfortable with we are doing a
fork of the secret Network so it's not a
complete Cosmos SDK Fork it's it's the
fork of a slightly more built up chain
secret Network secret Network the point
of that network is the ability to have
private contract execution which is a
fascinating concept but it's basically
you know kind of like take Monero and
ethereum and there you go so it's
fascinating and really interesting we
are using it for one single purpose
obviously the secret network is like
general purpose contract execution so if
I have a smart contract I can throw it
on there like oh there wasn't chains we
have no interest in in allowing multiple
contracts to run on our Network that's
not the point of our Network our network
is focused on very specific game code
but that's secure Enclave that ability
to hide things inside the chain allows
us to hide random and make it so that we
can still issue random numbers during
attacks during Planet creation and
things like that without someone being
able to go oh well I know what the next
random number is I'm going to withhold
until it's a better random number and
then I'll release my my transaction or
even
um you know validators saying okay well
I'm gonna I'm gonna reorder these in a
way that's that's going to be beneficial
and then we're going to execute those so
being able to high a pseudo-random
number generator inside a blockchain is
something that you know certainly make
games more fun goes back to our first
statement of we want to make a fun game
having things too random it becomes a
lottery not really fun having things not
random enough can be boring although you
know chess has certainly had a crazy
Resurgence recently but there was like a
sweet spot there that you want to
sprinkle some random on in it and it
makes for a good replayability and an
interesting experience so forking the
secret Network to be our own chain with
really instead of using that at general
purpose encrypted computation machine
for everything we're just using it for
one little purpose and that's random so
getting that in everyone's hand it's a
slightly more complex blockchain to run
than standard Cosmos SDK so really this
is us making sure our Network can handle
this and they they're able to to
facilitate the network so yeah we'll see
how that works out but that's the next
test net it was supposed to be released
about mid-september I can pretend times
you're doing this recording early in
August making that timeline still right
on the way but the reality is we're
probably looking at October now nice
what a cool use case to use a privacy
oriented chain to hide a random number
generator usually you know you hear like
the kind of uber libertarian stance when
it comes to privacy chains like I want
to be able to protect my assets from
being seen by anybody else but super
interesting how strux is incorporating
the random number generator so the demo
that's going to come out next is that
going to be still kind of text based
with like minimal Graphics or is this
going to be like a Unity engine 3D kind
of demo what can like the end user
expect this next little like offline
battle engine will still be probably
fairly rudimentary from a ux standpoint
that said our ux people are constantly
dropping kind of new hints at what the
US will the experience will be like so
you do although they're not kind of
being developed in unison you do get to
experience kind of both of those but
yeah we kind of need to see how people
interact with this rudimentary thing and
then we can kind of figure out what
grows from there as far as the interface
elements you see how people end up
playing this game because it might not
be the same way we expect them to play
this game and then once we know that we
can do a bit of a better job making sure
the interface supports that process
better and then looks super badass I
don't see us building a Unity interface
for at least a while now for a couple
reasons one we don't have the expertise
to do that right now so we need
something to launch that looks cool and
supports it that said what we're
building is a protocol like we're
building a game protocol when it boils
down to it we're building an interface
for it and we're building tooling and
libraries for it but that doesn't
necessarily mean that you know someone
else can't come in and provide a
different experience for our users and
even different subsets of users so just
because we're not building it doesn't
mean someone might not build it if it
makes sense the future and the other
problem is on things like unity and that
kind of more full-featured you know AAA
exciting gameplay the distribution
models of those is kind of difficult for
games in our industry right now still
you know you don't know if if the steams
the play stores the iOS stores all these
different distribution mechanisms are
just going to say no and just remove you
or block you from from ever launching so
it's it's really difficult right now to
invest massive amounts into that
experience and then not to say it
doesn't doesn't have the potential to
look amazing but with so much
uncertainty of whether or not someone is
clearly a scam regardless of how much
Community Support or efforts go into it
it's hard to to justify that right now
so we'll be primarily web-based but that
said that the experience you had in the
browser for the demo is still night and
day compared to the experience that
we're building for you right now do you
think that there's a little bit of like
a hang over from Facebook banning crypto
ads in 2017 is it like a PTSD or like a
sour taste in your team's like palette
where does this kind of um conservatism
kind of stem from is it just like being
wrecked by regulations and and big
entities over the decade I I guess we're
totally still jaded about that so like
we have a Facebook group for structs or
a page for strucks I mean I think
there's four followers on that certainly
we have a much more substantial growing
following on things like Twitter and and
just in our Discord but you know I still
I'll get on Facebook like oh and you
know average of boost this post on
Facebook and it's like can I though like
are you gonna let me or are you gonna
immediately like ban this ad I generally
work under the assumption that none of
those things are available to us I don't
expect we'll be able to use Google ads
Facebook ads Reddit ads I just don't I
don't expect those ecosystems to allow
us to exist in their Realms which is
frustrating you know parts of me
obviously get it there was a lot of
rampant fraud and they just didn't know
how to deal with it I I mean less
worried about that although that will be
difficult because you know we will have
have a desire to reach these communities
to reach Gamers and who aren't
interested in blockchain technology I
can reach blockchain folks like I got I
got those memes I I can go to
conferences and get people on board all
day long but again that's not that's not
the only audience we want for this game
we want we want people to enjoy this
game who have never heard of this
technology and don't give a crap about
this technology in the same way that
they don't care if postgres Powers World
of Warcraft like it's just not
interesting to them to understand what
the technology is behind these games
because they're they're a wizard and
they're running around and shooting crap
at stuff like they're not they're not
thinking like oh gee I wonder much
message buffer that they were using it's
super impressive how well this is
loading like it's just not interesting
to them and we don't want it to be
interesting to them that's not the
experience you're trying to get but
that's still a very different user but
as far as the crypto users we can get
those users we have those means we'll
try and get these other users yet to be
seen I think I'm more worried about the
fact that you know they just have a
general chip on their shoulder to this
technology we saw very quickly you know
the goal post move where it's like okay
well you know Keith is now you know not
proof of work they're they're not you
know Burning Down the rainforest as you
were so concerned and then suddenly they
become proof of stake experts and and
can list out all these reasons why proof
of stake is horrible and and you know
there's no purpose to it as well so that
is primarily the gaming Market it's just
a bunch of people who don't believe in
this Tech so we we have to be so good at
what we're building that we trick them
into having fun before they realize
what's actually happening under the hood
so we'll see how that goes how we do
that when without any ability to
advertise on on the major systems I
don't know maybe they'll come around and
they won't care or maybe we'll beg or
have the right contacts to get our ads
in kind of worry about that when we get
there I think the key is and it's really
what drives everyday at our company is
just building something so good that
it's easy to argue like building
something that's literally enjoyable
doesn't ruin lives and doesn't burn the
rainforest down and saying hey you know
we here to enjoy well from like a
messaging perspective at least the L1
that you guys are building on the cosmos
SDK is not proof of work so you kind of
already have that hurdle dealt with to
an extent yeah now they're proof of
stake experts so there's all sorts of
things that we have to worry about now
like plutocracy and things like that but
how have you been attracting a community
because I'm a member of the Discord and
like I found out about structs because
we're friends so are you mostly for
friends and family right now is it just
like General blockchain game enthusiasts
is it specific subsets from the cosmos
ecosystem who's your community and and
like what does that activity look like
right now friends certainly in there
there's a you know a small following of
people who have just enjoyed the games
I've put out over the years they have
been in those States very technical
games
but not to say that I don't know how to
find ways of interesting a very
technical user without also interesting
a non-technical user so I think I think
there's a there's people who have
followed say schemaverse followed coin
droids and legitimately enjoyed those
games and and put you know possibly tens
if not hundreds of hours into playing
those over the last decade and they're
curious about what's coming up next so
I've got I've got that core contingent
of Gamers who are are just fascinated to
see what comes of this and I assure you
they'll be entertained then there's uh
you know I've spent a lot of time just
getting to know the cosmos ecosystem
getting in other communities getting to
know the stargaze community getting to
know the secret Network communities
doing research and getting to know these
different nft projects and and kind of
seeing what makes these people
interested in these different projects
what what keeps them interested in these
different communities how do communities
stay relevant you know it's one thing
for an end of tea project to drop
something and get a big Discord going
it's another thing for them to stay
relevant long after that collection
drops you know what are what is their
processes so through that certainly met
a lot of interesting people and and
they've been interested in what we're
doing it's getting them in it hasn't
been you know a big challenge but I
think a lot of people are you know just
kind of curious of wanting to be a
little bit more Hands-On with it so
those who are in our community now are
excited about the long term but it's
difficult to do a big push to get in a
lot of people if we're not you know
ready to entertain them and and we're a
small team so we can either we can spend
every day entertaining A group of a
thousand people in a Discord or we can
spend most of our day working and
building and building something great
that will entertain them later so it's a
bit of a you know difficult balance of
we want to build that Community right
now and actually the game requires the
community before it can even launch we
can't just say okay you know here's Main
it's ready and not have a community
behind it because the game itself is
very Community oriented so it's in our
interest to build these communities and
help the different factions and guilds
kind of start to materialize because
that'll make the actual launch of the
game far more interesting and successful
yeah and when I when I start playing the
next iteration of the game will I be
automatically joined into a faction what
is the guild is it an agglomeration of
players do you get to choose what Guild
you're in how does that multiplayer
element kind of work you definitely get
to choose the guild you're in and it's
basically who you stake to so because
it's a a cosmo has changed there's
validators in our game we call them
reactors and one the main reason why
we've done this is the other reason why
it's interesting to add a blockchain to
a game and many people can talk until
they're blue in the face of why we don't
need a blockchain for many different
things well the beyond that exchange
element that new X of the 4X game into a
5X the other reason why we want to use a
chain is we all have those games so
we've played over the years at least
most Gamers do where you know the
servers shut down and that game is Just
history now it no longer exists you've
got the story of the people going down
with the ship on the original Halo of
just standing there chatting waiting for
the service to turn off these are games
that mean a lot to people and then they
build friendships over it relationships
that last a long time or you know it's
just a way to blow off steam and it was
you know a big part of their day what we
want to do and use this technology for
is we've intertwined the lore of the
game and the mechanics of the game into
the operations of the game as long as
the game is played the game will
continue so we built this model of
factions being built around validators
that way as long as there are still
factions even one faction although you
know it's not gonna be the most secure
system but it's a game who cares as long
as there's one fact action but hopefully
there are multiple factions the game is
able to continue the game is able to
move forward and people are continuously
able to play so a big thing of what
we're doing is making sure that these
factions exist when we go to launch and
then the game itself can continue
there's no just like oh you know slow
ninja isn't making enough on this game
and we decide to walk away from it well
you know we've developed a game of Open
Source there's a community of people
running it there's a governance system
designed around those community members
that are running it there's the ability
for artists to add new art to the game
at any time and even from a moderation
perspective there's an element there so
the you know we make a game that's
actually decentralized doesn't rely on
us surely we're here to build it and
we're excited about it but if for
whatever reason we need to step away
from it in the future this game will
continue moving forward continue playing
as long as the users of their play and
that's what we think is you know a
pretty exciting thing of what we get to
build on awesome are you gonna do like a
pre-release like staking party to start
building up that audience is that
something that's not even on the road
map until we have like a beta lined up
that'll definitely be the next the Tesla
that we're building is getting people in
there getting those factions to kind of
start getting people to you know get
into that test net and start applying
their fuel to the reactor in our realm
or staking that that asset to the
validator and then from there we'll use
that state of the test net to Define how
we launch the main net down the road so
I think we're we're certainly interested
in incentivizing those who helped build
it and it also just you know is
interesting to see these factions form
so hopefully that that entertains people
in a way too the fun thing about the
factions is we're already seeing people
take the idea of their factions very
seriously and write good backstories and
you know create logos and just really
start to build all that up together
which is you know awesome to see as well
we have our own base lore of the game or
Canon and seeing people kind of run with
that to Define their own systems is a
lot of fun yeah so will there be like
some sort of Ip sharing with uh content
that the community puts together are you
implementing any of these new innovative
ways to reward community members for
contributing to lore yeah I mean there's
there's definitely some conversations
that need to be had with our legal team
to figure out how the hell we do all
this certainly just utilizing things
like the Creative Commons as much as
possible and encouraging that helps a
lot we'll kind of see how this goes but
I think you know if someone if someone
is building assets for the game
be it base Cosmetics for the the profile
Avatar of players or you know unit
designs or Planet designs if someone is
creating art for the game then there
should be possibly multiple ways of them
to monetize that that might be able to
give it away for free renting it selling
it whatever they might choose or they
might you know monitor the chain and
give it away as prizes occurring certain
events and we'll also you know maybe
factions will have their own kind of
look and have an artist on staff kind of
helping them Define what that look is
and if you're a part of their faction
you get access to their stuff if you
believe the faction you know that
uniform is gone basically so all sorts
of different methodologies for how we
let people bring their own art into the
game if they want to monetize that art
how they can do that and then how the
players can monetize those different
pieces that they might own or might only
have access to or out State and then the
hard part about all that is defining
this in a way and we have some ideas for
this so we'll see how this goes uh
defining all this in a way that you know
someone just doesn't have you know penis
bot versus penis bot and that's you know
it's the internet so it always does kind
of devolve into that yeah we we do have
some some processes and methodologies in
place back on that governance side of
things as to how do we when do we let
someone bring art into the game at least
from a general perspective that said
part of being a faction isn't just
running that validator else is going to
be say running a front end and if my
faction is just like oh let's have penis
party and just wants everything to be
penises and I'm a player who's playing
through their interface no it's fine
you're not you're not harming the rest
of the people who are in a slightly more
gated moderated version of the game and
they're enjoying that that's great so so
we can actually see two of these
coexisting in a really nice way and it's
about how do we how do we govern that
process and and how do we give factions
that we want you know penis Palace how
do we give them the tooling to go on
their own and do that while interacting
with the game as a whole and not ruining
anyone else's experience and how do we
provide the tooling to the moderated
community that isn't defined by us it
isn't slow ninja saying you know we
accept this in the game and we accept
that in the game we want to lead by
example and say here's some kick-ass art
assets here's the thematics here's the
the style and the feel of it and here's
what you can do to make sure that things
are confusing too because if I look at
one unit and it's got some big cannons
on it and it's on land but it looks like
a ship or something like it's just
confusing so we want to make sure that
in that moderator it's not even just
about it looking good and not being
offensive but also properly explains the
state of the game too so again how do we
how do we provide mechanisms to make
sure that all that is in place and
encouraged while still letting people go
have penis Pals so when test net when
testnet next testnet probably mid mid
October just made a lot of great
progress this week on it to be honest
but now I'm going to Cosmo verse next
week hopefully have a great time there
and talk to some cool people so I would
I would expect probably mid-october for
the next test that and even if you're
not running a node yourself I will make
sure there's some cool things you can do
with that including get your pfp going
get that all set up so you can have your
in-game character ready a lot of what we
want to do is actually in these test
notes it's not just about testing the
code which obviously that's a big part
of it but giving people little
components where once the main net does
come into play you know they're kind of
ready they're started already they've
got their their characters designed
they've got their their home planet
ready and these things can kind of just
go from day one so it'll be a little bit
of an iterative process in the main net
hopefully test net Middle October day
two weeks I'll say two weeks awesome so
if I'm a brand new user what do I need
to play Strokes do I need a Kepler
wallet or can I just go straight to the
website and get going yeah it's
definitely just go straight to the
website we'll add more secure elements
to it later on as far as Kepler
Integrations likely especially using
things like the new off-see modules so
that way you can have you know kind of
your main wallet versus wallets that can
do other smaller things but what we want
to do is always just provide a really
nice clean interface where there's no
there's no pop-ups coming up of
authorizations and things like that
you're interacting with a blockchain but
it'll be a much different way than
you're used to as far as interacting
with the blockchain everything very
streamlined and not in kind of the way
that we're used to dealing with
blockchains now which is all these
different wallets and confusing things
so generally if you want to play go
straight to the site and get started
there and obviously I encourage you to
join up the Discord too where likely
your faction will be and you can start
building some enemies and and some
composing friends in the community sweet
so where's the best place for people to
find the Discord or to keep up with the
project I think the best places are our
kind of living white paper which would
be our Wiki so what dot Wiki w-a-t-t dot
w-i-k-i What DOT Wiki that document is
what we're using when we're building the
game it defines everything that we're
building in that game as we Define more
elements it goes into that document as
we answer questions we try and keep
frequently asked questions areas up to
speed and that's also where you can find
the invite to our Discord as well as a
link to the demo if you want to go play
the old demo still available as well
awesome what that Wiki Josh thank you so
much for coming to join the podcast
today it was awesome to just get a brain
dump from an OG's perspective and just
to hear more about structs and the
really cool way you got ways you guys
are integrating blockchain so I really
appreciate your time hey thanks for
reminding me on Dylan it's been awesome
cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
I thought it was really cool to hear
Josh's perspective about building on
different blockchains and the
differences between huddle communities
and those that support anything
interesting it was also fascinating to
learn how strucks is a gaming protocol
that others can use and build different
interfaces on top of and it was real
intriguing to learn how factions will be
determined through distributed Network
governance mechanisms like voting to a
validator node and how that will remove
dependency that traditional games have
had on centralized servers this means
trucks will live as long as people are
playing the game even if slow ninja
Studios stops developing on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward catching you next
time